if I push my here bitch she comes in if
I put my hand out she goes out that's
very useful if you have a dog that
crowds emotions because if they're too
close you can move them out with their
hand like this
her way bringing her back if he is a
nose bridge which i think is effective
for attention and field position he
can't use it to position the dog if you
use what's basically a hand targets at
the side of the head you can move the
dog around just by moving your hand in
and out the other nice thing is my dog
really likes it and it's very comforting
in the ring to be able to just put my
hand on her head like that and play with
her she's up because I can play with her
with my hand here so for example I can
tell her
she stays pretty much in there and I'm
not gonna have trouble with the judges
say dogs out of control
if I want to use that
good girl if I want to use that hand
position to work on her finish I'm going
to bring my hand out there and help I'm
gonna catch her head as she comes around
yep good girl
basically I structured her to be right
just like my hands here
what I'm really doing is just making her
right there's limited carryover in the
ring to making a dog right and then
taking your hands away it doesn't just
work but you're also going for muscle
memory that's what I'm looking for there
hey yo I caught her head good job face
yes yeah pretty good so let's see if I
can bear good girl just by moving my
hand I can try to move that
Hey
good job